# Course outline

The course consists of the following eight components. Each component consists of literature, optional slides for teachers, and practical assignments for the students. It is up to the course organisation to determine how long a component lasts. With quarterly or semester courses, each component can take one or two weeks. In an intensive programme, each component can also be two days, with the students working fulltime on the project.

1.      Introduction to design thinking / human-centered design to tackle wicked problems

Students learn the general process of design thinking / human-centered design. We follow the workflow used by the department of Graphic and Digital Media of Artevelde University College: https://www.gdm.gent/design-meets-research/hcd/ In this stage, students need to understand the general process and its applications and benefits. The will discover the practical details in later stages.

2.      Division of labor: team composition and complementarity

Now that students know what they will have to do, they need to divide roles in their team. They will analyse both their technical skills needed for the assignment, as well as their personal soft skills. Students will also analyse which competences they lack in their team, and how they will deal when these competences will be required.

3.      Client introduction and problem briefing

Students will learn who the client is, and what the problem is they are going to provide a solution for. This module will include preparation work by the students to make a professional impression and ask relevant questions after the briefing.

4.      Finding the problem (discover and define)

This is the first ‘diamond’ of the methodology. Via a process of divergence and convergence, students will analyse the problem and find its root causes to be tackled. The practical work for this component will run for two periods, in parallel with component 5.

5.      Ethical and sustainable thinking

Students will learn about ethical and sustainable questions, focussed on the creative industries. They will then apply the lessons learned on their own problem and potential solutions.

6.      Finding the solution: ideate and prototype

The second ‘diamond’ again follows a process of divergence and convergence. Students will brainstorm and develop multiple solutions through cheap prototypes, test them, and come up with their best solution. The practical work for this component will run for two periods, in parallel with component 7.

7.      Motivation and perseverance

Students will learn about motivation and perseverance, both on a personal and a team level. Using the theory, they can reflect on the work performed in the past components.

8.      Presentation and implementation

During the last component, the students present their solution to the client, to the teachers, and to other teams (if the course ran with multiple teams in parallel).

Schematically, this looks as follows:
